### ACID Transactions in MongoDB

**Atomicity**: Guarantees that every transaction is "all or nothing" when committing data to a database. E.g, we don't want money to be taken from an account but not successfully added to another

**Consistency**: Guarantees that the data written to the database is consistent with databse constraints. E.g, if an account balance cannot be less than 0, a transaction would fail before violating this constraint.

**Isolation**: Guarantees that each transaction that is run concurrently leaves the database in the same state as if the transactions were run sequentially. In other words, multiple transactions can happen at the same time without affecting the outcome of the other transactions. 

**Durability**: Guarantees that data is never lost. Data is saved to non-volatile memory, so any modifications made to data by a successful transaction will persist, even in the event of a power or hardware failure.

### Multi-Document Transactions

ACID transactions in MongoDB are typically used only by applications where values are exchanged between different parties,  such as banking or business applications. If you find yourself in a scenario where multi-document transaction is required, it's very likely that you will complete a transaction with one of MongoDB's drivers. 

```
const session = db.getMongo().startSession()

session.startTransaction()

const account = session.getDatabase(<DBName>).getCollection(<CollectionName>)

// Add database operations like `updateOne()` here

session.commitTransaction() // to commit the transaction

// to use session.abortTransaction() to abort the transaction

